---
layout: page
title: Author's Foreword
description: WikiDeed foreword. 
permalink: "/foreword/"
---

In 2002, I give myself rather long-term tasks; to make this old book I
found simple to read. (I take on long-term tasks for myself!). I found
a book called The Code Of Jewish Law. For me this was to take this
obscure unknown book written in the 1920s with long-winded old English
and to make it simple, and to find the point in each section. Now, in
2015 I’ve come to realize the book’s significance, so I thought I’d
share my project of reducing, what I now know as a great work, into
easy to read tasks.

I found the Victorian English translation of *The* *Code of Jewish
Law,* published in 1929. I had no idea what sort of book it was when I
first picked it up or for well over a decade. I didn’t know its
origins or significance. All I knew was that it was a cross between
very old; and very, very old point-by-point instructions pertaining to
how one should conduct his or her daily life, reading like a user’s
manual. The version I picked up had no reference at all. There was no
forward or editors notes. I’ve learned that it was translated from the
work of Solomon Ganzfried who was an Orthodox rabbi and posek best
known as an author of *Halakha* (Jewish law), the *Kitzur Shulchan*
*Aruch*.

Who wrote down this code of Jewish conduct? Its actual name is the
*Shulchan Aruch* (Hebrew: עָרוּך שֻׁלְחָן), which literally translates
to “Set Table.” It is also referred to as *The Code of Jewish Law*.
The *Shulcan Aruch* was written in 1563 by Yosef Karo in Safed,
Israel, and published two years later in Venice, Italy. It has been
republished and translated countless times.
 
The Five Books of Moses are the first five books of the twenty-four
books of the Tanakh, together with the oral laws and commentary that
form the well-spring of Jewish law and custom. There are The 613
Commandments in the Hebrew Bible; however, they are not directly laid
out as *do’s* and *don’ts* of day-to-day living. Much of the Jewish
liturgy I find to be more original text, commentary or prayer.
 
I study a bit, with help, but this project I could do on my own and at
my own pace. I began this project on May 15, 2002 (on the occasion of
my third son’s 6^th^ birthday) and mostly finished in 2010. In the
fall of 2015, thanks to him, I picked it back up and came to realize
its origin and significance. Back then I had just decided to make the
book I found into a more readable-to-modern-times list for me, but not
trimming down its four volumes, 221 chapters, and approximately 2,700
rules. My new goal was to make it into a book in time for the Jewish
New Year of 5776; September 14, 2015, today.
 
Sure, some of the rules in The *Code Of Jewish Law* seem
outdated—modern times have rendered them obsolete—but, most remain as
true today as they have ever been. *The Code of Jewish Law* can be
viewed as instructions, as opposed to doctrine. The list of day-to-day
tasks and prohibitions seem endless. However, the list that comprises
*The Code of Jewish Law* comes from a recognized and universally
accepted source.
 
Let’s be perfectly clear . . . That source is not me! It should be
argued that there is always something lost in translation. This is
even more the case in this instance. I am absolutely no authority, I
was an average student, I can read NO Hebrew, I checked with no one
and, I have no way of knowing if I translated or reduced it well. I
took what I saw and made it an easier for me read.
 
It is a book of deeds and I simply took it as a task to make it
simple. Some things simply seem worth doing; not all things need
knowing.
 
In this case, that is the point.
 
—Bruce Fogelson
